Subject: AHA Nat'l. Competition
Date: 16 Jan 93 13:51:49 EST
From: Paul & Anita Correnty <71174.1121@CompuServe.COM>


  Greetings!


  I've been off line a few weeks, amazing the havoc wrought by a blown
hard drive...


  A reminder to all that the AHA Nationals are coming up and I urge you
to submit entries to this new category, especially in light of the high
quality of cider that is now being made. The sole site for Cider will
be at the Boston Beer Works . Entries must arrive May 13-21 and judging
and winners chosen June 1-14. Note that there are four different cider
categories so there is a category for every type. As more info becomes 
available on this I'll pass it on. For entry info see the Winter issue
of Zymurgy l992.


  The winethief and I took a tour of the cellar last week to check up
on things. From barrel to barrel the results were uniformly fantastic, 
heady and rich upfront and remarkably smooth considering their youth. 
The different yeasts that were used each highlighted different
components of the cider. Although I still remain partial to wild yeast
ciders, a raspberry cider turned with Wyeast Bavarian slurry is the
absolute balls, beautiful in color with a crushed raspberry nose and
long, long finish. Those of you that picked up juice at the CiderFest
(if you are not already aware), you are in for a treat!


  On one last note: I'm looking for imput from fellow appleheads
concerning subjects, questions or opinions that you would like to see
in a book on Cider. Any suggestions would be very helpful.


  Thanks!   Paul Correnty.




------------------------------