Subject: Reply
Date: Tue, 17 Nov 92 14:21:31 cdt
From: "Butts,Stephen J" <BUTTS@AC.GRIN.EDU>


To TAK and anyone else interested, on "tasteless" cider:


First of all take heart -- if your juice had some flavor, much of it may 
well come back when the yeast gets out of the way.  Which brings me to the 
central point:  did your must EVER have any flavor?  Many apple-growers 
make cider out of apples they can't sell -- overripe, underripe, apples 
fallen to the ground, what-have-you.  Those with a bit more integrity use 
sound apples, but crush bland varieties like Delicious [sic] and Macintosh 
that really don't have enough tannins and acid to provide support through 
the fermentation and aging process.  If you're starting out and can't sel- 
ect a blend of apples well-suited to cider-making, at least try to taste a 
bunch of different ciders.  Look for one that makes your mouth pucker, not 
one that is sweet and "yummy."  Smell the stuff; it should have a distinct 
apple-y nose.  Two-buck-a-jug apple juice plus yeast gives two-buck-a-jug 
cider.  Life is too short to drink this stuff.  Remember:  cider is basically 
WINE.


Secondly, did your cider really stop bubbling after 12-13 days?  This is a 
bit fast; cider needs a slow primary and a very long secondary, about a 
month for the one and 3-4 months + for the other.  If you're fermenting it 
all out quickly, you might try a different yeast and a lower temperature 
next time.


Finally, don't filter or fine your cider, let it clear naturally.  You want 
those little tiny particles that cloud the cider to drift gently to the 
bottom of your vessel, leaving behind their flavors.  Wine expert Robert 
Parker says that severe filtration or fining can sharply reduce a wine's 
aroma and taste, and the same is true for cider.
 


------------------------------